
Prologue I

Kenna stood naked at the mouth of the alley, curling her toes against the sidewalk—gathering the dust, the sand, the grit—eyes watching her feet.
“We do this for Earth,” she said into the night. “Just remember that.”
She had her arms crossed against her belly rather than over her breasts, as if to present them to the boy who watched silently from the alleyway. He too was naked, and he had his head lying back against the wall and his hands cupped over his crotch. The far off sounds of the city’s festival came softly through the night—a light stream of drumbeats and conversation, the occasional laugh or exaggerated yell, or a unified roar of approval from a crowd. The boy looked up at the stars above because he couldn’t bear to look at the girl he had come with.
“See anyone?” he asked her.
His cheeks were red.
Kenna looked down the street. It was an old-world desert city, and they were in the shambling outskirts where the homes were generic blocks of ash-colored sandstone with windows and doorways cut into their faces. The sidewalk was smooth, and the street was a crude checkerboard of discolored cobble. Narrow poles of glass lined the sidewalk, and at their tops were bowls of flames that licked greedily at the night sky.
Far, far down the street, where the buildings stopped, the path led to the open city gates and out into the greater desert beyond. Out there, hills of crimson sand rolled endlessly under the milky moon like waves in an ocean of blood, covered in wild bushes dotted randomly like patches of pubic hair.
No one that way.
The other way had better news, though. When Kenna turned her head she saw the silhouette of a carriage in the distance. It came down the road silently at first, an incoherent object in the dark forming up briefly whenever it passed under the light of one of the torches and then devolving into a strange shape when it passed back into the darkness. Two large catlike creatures carried it along. Tigers, almost, though sleeker and without stripes, and with legs as long as a horse’s. Muzzles covered their mouths, but she could see their wet feline eyes glistening. The carriage was a fat contraption with large, quiet wheels, and it took up nearly the entire width of the street. There was a rider in the driver’s bench at the front of the carriage—a large man holding tight to the reins of his cats who seemed not to notice this naked young woman.
Kenna looked at the boy in the alley, who was still watching the sky. “Someone’s coming,” she hissed, and his back straightened and his eyes found hers. He mouthed out, ‘Who?’ but instead of answering, she turned and hurried to the center of the street, arms still closed against her belly. “Help!” she shouted. “Help me! Please help!” She continued this as the carriage drew closer and closer, the cats growing larger as they crossed the distance. She threw her hands up in a gesture of surrender and yelled for them to stop, though the cats, and the man controlling them, seemed not to care.
Perhaps the man was only testing her resolve, because when he stood in the bench and reined the cats up, they snapped their heads back and shuffled their feet abruptly, and they were barely two feet away from Kenna before they finally stopped.
A shallow puff of dust dissolved at their ankles. They stared at her. They seemed to have never seen a naked girl before. One tilted its head to the side while the other lowered its head so that its eyes would be level with hers. Big, blue spheres the color of a robin’s eggs behind peeled eyelids.
Even in that blinding dark she could see their eyes.
Cats’ eyes always intrigued her, no matter the species or the place, or—in Kenna’s case—the universe. It wasn’t that the eyes were deep or poetic, but rather that they weren’t either of those things. The natural confidence behind them pleased her. Wolves have arrogance and contempt in their eyes. Blind violence drives them. Bears have madness and panic in their eyes. Blind fear drives them. Cats have a humble, level condescension. If a tiger catches you in its domain, you are dead. Case closed. There’s no reason for it to get riled up, show its fangs or swing its paws. It isn’t happy about the fate you share, but it isn’t bothered, either; it simply understands.
This massive cat which made eye contact with Kenna seemed to understand something, though its conclusion was clearly not that she was dead. Not while it was muzzled anyway. It lifted its head again, and she stepped back.
“Hello?” she called to the man behind the reins, who was standing there peering at her with a wrinkle splitting his brow down the middle.
He wore a loose, hooded garment that completely covered his rotund figure, fitting close against his body and ending just above his boots like a full-body dress. He kept the reins in his grip and spoke some harsh, serpentine words in a language she didn’t know yet. Words with half as many vowels as she preferred a language to have. An angry-sounding tongue, but not one she would complain about.
The man dropped the reins and descended to the ground, and he landed with a soft clapping sound, and the cats perked their ears and purred deep in their throats, turning their long necks to look at him.
He said something else she didn’t understand. A question perhaps. His voice rose at the end of his sentence.
When she didn’t answer, he held his arms out and shrugged. Then a door on the side of the carriage swung open, and a fat woman jumped down with a little child following after her. Both wore the same long, hooded garments that covered them down past their ankles. The child took hold of the woman’s garment just above her knee and looked up at Kenna with its little mouth twisted and its eyebrows up.
A girl, it seemed.
Her eyes were big, like Kenna’s, but the irises were rings of gold around her dark pupils as opposed to Kenna’s gray eyes; and whereas Kenna and the boy in the alley were pale, this girl and this man and this woman were as brown as tree bark. The woman tucked her fingers into her daughter’s hair and nudged her back a little, watching for what Kenna would do. Then Kenna hugged herself again, and the woman’s face softened, and she went over to Kenna with her hands held out and took her by the shoulders. She started to speak that angry language, worry in her eyes, questions spilling from her lips.
Kenna tried to answer, but the woman didn’t understand, and then they all froze when they heard footsteps. The boy had emerged from the alleyway, as naked as Kenna and holding a balled up cloak against his crotch in one hand and a long necklace in the other. It was a simple thing, made from a thick, fairly stiff wire rather than links of metal. The ends of the wire were connected to loops of plastic shaped like the finger holes on a pair of scissors, though they were large enough for the average person to stick their hands through. These plastic loops were connected, completing the necklace, so that they looked like a strange medallion if you didn’t study them for long enough. He came over and handed the wire necklace to Kenna, standing half a foot taller than her. Kenna put it over her head and let it hang from her neck.
The woman had let go of Kenna by now and only clasped her hands against her own chest. She looked from the boy to Kenna.
“Cart,” Kenna said, grabbing the boy’s arm. Then she said, “Tab,” and pointed to herself.
The woman shook her head and turned to her fellow travelers. The man said something in that harsh language, and she answered with a single word. Then they were silent. Kenna looked at the boy, but he only stared at the little girl. When Kenna yanked his arm, the boy flinched and looked at her.
“You want her?” she asked him.
He stared at Kenna as if he had never seen her before. She saw herself reflected tiny in his black eyes, the rounded cheeks bordered by ombre hair falling past her shoulders, dark brunette near the roots and blond near the tips.
The woman suddenly burst out with a string of foreign words and put one hand on Kenna’s hip and turned, leading her toward the carriage. The boy followed, keeping the cloak against his crotch. The woman let Kenna into the carriage first, and then she went in with the child and the boy behind her.
Inside, there was a wooden bench against the wall opposite the back of the carriage. The rest of the vehicle was filled with wooden chests, their lids tilted open against cloths of cotton and silk in all colors spilling to the floor like water. A rainbow of crystals was pooled around two open barrels, from emeralds cut in the shapes of coins to sapphires cut like mini pyramids to ruby blocks and diamond marbles and all sorts of candylike jewels. Kenna figured that if it was currency, it couldn’t have been too valuable, unless she’d just been picked up by the greatest thieves to ever live.
She sat on the far end of the bench, and then there was the woman, then the child, and finally the boy she’d come with. The child stared up at him, and he stared right back. The woman refused to shut up, taking Kenna’s hand and pointing at all the riches in the carriage. She leaned forward, her fat belly protruding between her chest and her knees like a sack of luggage she wanted close to her at all times, and she grabbed a bundle of silk and pulled it free from a pile of other clothes. She unfurled it and showed it to Kenna—another one of those hooded garments. Kenna knew what the woman was saying when she held the cloth up for her to take.
Though the woman watched, the boy inexplicably averted his eyes as Kenna stood and pulled the garment over her slim body, covering the wire necklace which still hung against her chest. When she got it on and threw her arms through the sleeves and stuck her head through the neck hole, she was struck suddenly by how sharp the color was. Pure, brilliant crimson. Redder than blood. So soft against her skin. It was far too loose—the sleeves rested against her knuckles, and the hood bunched up gently against the back of her neck; and it was a touch too long—her dusty white toes poked out from under the silk; but otherwise it pleased her.
“How do I look?” she turned to the boy.
The woman nodded and smiled and the child clapped and said some gibberish. The boy gave her a long stare, a faint sheen of sweat on his forehead, just below his hairline.
Kenna frowned.
He turned his head and looked out the window.
Into the desert they rode.
She looked out the window too, and she watched with him the red world sprawling out in all directions. There were black mountains on the eastern horizon like mounds of obsidian, and there were wild cats in the distant sands playing a shadow puppet show with their silhouettes in the moonlight, and there were tiny pinpoints above the mountains that formed up in the void of the sky like floating V’s before descending suddenly with colorless eyes shining deep in their ratlike faces and fluttering their papery wings and screeching and passing over the carriage like warplanes on a bombing run. The bats went away into the night, their chorus of cheers droning into infinity, lost forever.
Now they were out in the raw desert, where the land wasn’t as forgiving as a cobblestone road. The wheels rumbled when they dropped into a divot before jumping back onto the main path, and the whole structure rattled when the driver tried a sharp turn that stopped some of the wheels from spinning. The carriage eventually came to a stop somewhere in the red wastes of the desert, and then the door swung open on its shaky hinges and they saw the driver waiting for them to come out.
Later that night, Kenna found herself behind the carriage with the woman. On the other side, her friend sat with the little girl and the man, crouched around a fire in the center of some stones. The woman stood before Kenna, holding in one hand a pair of silk shorts and a bra she’d found in the countless chests of clothes in the carriage. They were meant to be underwear, but they were longer than any normal shorts Kenna had ever worn. The bra was more than one size too big, especially for a girl whose breasts were too small to move much at all when she walked.
Still, she took them and gave the woman a smile, and she made a little swirling motion with one finger. The woman turned around. And when Kenna saw that the woman would not peek, she lowered the underwear to the ground and reached into the collar of her garment to pull the wire necklace out. She lifted it over her head, slid her hands through the plastic loops and pulled them apart. They made a little snapping sound and the wire drooped. She stepped up to the woman slowly, the bottoms of her feet sinking into every pebble, every grain of sand beneath her, displacing them until they rose up between her toes like mud.
Then Kenna threw the wire over the woman’s head, crossed her wrists and pulled back.
The woman’s gasp was like the sound a zipper makes when you pull it up too fast. It came from deep inside, but it was squelched when the wire closed against her windpipe. She stumbled back and fell into Kenna, who fell to the ground with the woman atop her and closed her legs against the woman’s legs to keep them from kicking around too much. The woman clawed uselessly at the wire, head thrashing side to side, round body jerking wildly as her weight crushed Kenna beneath her. But the pale girl kept her hold on the woman, kept her wrists crossed, kept pulling them back, kept watching the white stars above as the boy did back in the alley.
This might have lasted half a minute, but it felt like half an hour.
The next part was what fascinated Kenna the most about strangulation: The shaking. The woman’s arms fell limp at her sides, and her eyes rolled back, only half-open now. A frothy foam collected at one corner of her mouth, and her body started to seizure. To Kenna there was absolutely nothing like it. Legs stiffening straight out and rising and falling, the heels pounding against the ground over and over as fingers curl and uncurl and the wrists turn and the biceps lock and the lips swell like sausages and move involuntarily, as if the victim is trying to speak in a tongue unintelligible to all but the dying.
What fascinated Kenna was how mechanical it was—the sort of thing that reminds you that no matter how smart and sophisticated you’ve become, you’re still an animal like the rest. A machine, really, with blood coursing your veins instead of electricity or oil, and with organs crunching the numbers instead of components or parts. When someone breaks you, like a machine, you will malfunction. You can blame a man for pissing himself when you put a blade to his neck, but can you blame a man for pissing himself when you cut his neck?
No.
One is a reflection of who you are; the other of what you are. Some neurons fire as they do because that’s simply what they do. Neurons will fire long after “you” are gone, because the body will always try to do its job. As Kenna held the fat woman through her last jerking moments of life, she knew the body might seem alive even hours after the fact, but the job would be done.
Life—like fire—can so easily change the world, and yet life—like fire—can so easily be extinguished.
Her biceps were sore when she came around the other side of the carriage with her hands through the loops of the wire. It was stained dark, the color of wine, and it smelled of wet blood, and the front of her garment was stained where the woman had pissed herself through both their clothes.
As she walked, the wire drooped and swayed, a drop of blood falling to the sand every so often. The man had fallen asleep on his side, dangerously close to the fire. Three unlabeled bottles lay toppled near his head, one of which she knew had still been half full because some liquid was dribbling from its mouth into a growing stain in the sand that stopped just about an inch away from his cheek. On the opposite side of the fire, two half-empty bowls of a brown, filmy soup sat around a small tin bucket. They must’ve been the boy and the child’s. She couldn’t decide if she was happier that the sleeping man had gotten drunk or that he hadn’t eaten yet.
She went behind the man and nudged him gently with her foot, and he rolled over completely onto his stomach. She sighed. Kenna knew procrastination was a dangerous fetish to have, and yet she found such calm in the moments between deciding to do something and actually doing it. There is a beauty there that often goes unnoticed. She felt one should bask in the power of those silent moments. You’ve decided to change the world in some way, be it for better or for worse, and it’s going to happen.
She got down on top of him, straddling him with her butt against his lower back, and then called out to him. “Wake up!” She shouted. “Up! Get up! Hurry!” She knew the urgency in her voice mattered more than the particular words, but she spoke like he’d understand anyway. “Old man, wake up!”
His head came up lazily at first, and then the life shot through him—she could feel it—he was awake and ready to stand, but Kenna was swift about throwing the wire over his head. When she pulled her wrists back and crossed them, he let out a wheezing cry. He clawed the wire first, and then he got up on his hands and knees, rocking Kenna back. She closed her legs around his waist, but still he scrambled to his feet and stumbled to the side a few steps before suddenly rushing backward, arms waving wildly, the girl so small compared to the man that from a distance they must have looked like a father playing with his daughter.
The man turned and backpedaled hard, and Kenna was crushed between him and the carriage. She grunted, and spittle exploded from her mouth and onto the man’s shoulder and neck. The carriage shook, and the cats growled and shuffled their feet, and the man gurgled like a drowning animal. Her legs fell from his sides but couldn’t support her, so they sagged beneath her as she nearly fell to her knees with her entire weight pulling back against his neck now. He struggled forward a few steps despite this, and Kenna hung from him screaming, “CARTER! CARTER! CARTER!” at the top of her lungs.
The boy burst through the door, jumped down and tackled them both so quickly that in a moment of blind terror, she thought one of the cats had come to its master’s aid. She and the man both lay on their sides now, Carter on his knees in front of him, holding his wrists and pulling them so the man could not reach back and get his attacker. She adjusted her grip, relaxed a little and then pulled back again, harder than before.
Then it came. The struggling. The shaking. The silence.
Before it was over, the boy let go of the man’s hands and only watched, grimacing, that sheen of sweat at his hairline thicker now. He had put on pants by then, though he still wore no shirt. He got a perfect view of the man’s face as he died, purple sausage lips and all. Kenna knew this, and she knew that she should say something, but she was still coming down from the adrenaline rush.
He started to speak, but then leaned forward on his hands and knees and turned away to vomit. The veins in his neck ballooned as he spit forth brown bile onto the desert floor. Kenna watched this for just a moment before relaxing her grip on the wire and slumping over with a soft, whimpering sound. Her back might be broken. But her people had been bred to be fast healers.
“Why…” he paused to breathe, “why’d you—” he gagged “—why did you make me help?” He was whining like a sick child. “Why didn’t you just do it yourself?”
She turned onto her stomach and closed her eyes, her side pressed up against the dead man.
“Tabytha…” he moaned.
She exhaled. “Did you get the girl?” she asked.
His silence was answer enough. After pushing herself up to her knees, putting a hand on the dead man’s shoulder for support, she looked over at her partner with a closed, twisted mouth.
He put the back of his hand up to his lips as if that would stop him from vomiting again.
“I’ll handle her too, then,” she said. “Alone.”
Kenna grabbed one of the loops of the wire and dragged it up with her as she stood. It was black with blood now, slick like something that had been dipped in oil. The firelight shone on it, and then the wind blew the flames low, and then it darkened, and then it shone again.
“Tabytha…” he whined. He said no more than that. They’d had this discussion too many times before, and it never ended well for him. She was glad he had at least learned that much.
The Multiverse is a painful place. This is as true for the Attached—those who are bound to the universe they live in—as for the Detached—those who can travel between them. Kenna walked over to the carriage with her hands through the loops and the wire sagging by her knees, dripping in the blood of the child’s parents. As she approached her next victim, she knew the people of the nearby city might miss these three. The country might miss them. Perhaps even the planet, if they were lucky. But the solar system would not. Nor the galaxy. Nor the universe.
Kenna stepped into the carriage. The girl had hidden amongst the clothes far in the back, but she was shaking so terribly under a bundle of garments that it was almost cute that she thought she could escape.
Kenna looked outside at her friend, who was lying on his back with his face in his hands, sniffling and crying. She slipped her hand out of one of the wire loops and reached out to grab the carriage door by the handle.
That sad, sobbing boy. He reminded her of herself, years ago. So many years ago. She felt pity for him, so she did the most helpful thing she could think of: She pulled the door shut so that he wouldn’t hear the screams.
